README.md, before:

# OpenPGP certification authority

OpenPGP CA is a tool for managing OpenPGP keys within an organization.

The primary goal is to make it trivial for end users to authenticate
OpenPGP keys for users in their organization or in adjacent organizations.

OpenPGP CA is built using https://gitlab.com/sequoia-pgp/sequoia


## Usage examples:

```
cargo run ca new example_ca openpgp_ca@example.org

cargo run user add example_ca -e alice@example.org -e a@example.org -n Alicia
cargo run user add example_ca -e bob@example.org

cargo run user import example_ca -e heiko@example.org -n Heiko --key_file ~/heiko.pubkey
cargo run user import example_ca -e heiko@example.org -n Heiko --key_file _test_data/pubkey.asc --revocation_file _test_data/revoke.asc

cargo run bridge new -r "*@foo.de" --remote_key_file /tmp/bar.txt --name foobridge example_ca
cargo run bridge revoke --name foobridge
```

A sqlite database gets created implicitly (by default in /tmp/openpgpca
.sqlite, as configured in the ".env" file in this project)

Commit message:

add example for specifying database file

README.md, after:

# OpenPGP certification authority

OpenPGP CA is a tool for managing OpenPGP keys within an organization.

The primary goal is to make it trivial for end users to authenticate
OpenPGP keys for users in their organization or in adjacent organizations.

OpenPGP CA is built using https://gitlab.com/sequoia-pgp/sequoia


## Usage examples:

```
cargo run ca new example_ca openpgp_ca@example.org
cargo run -- -d /tmp/foo.sqlite ca new example_ca openpgp_ca@example.org

cargo run user add example_ca -e alice@example.org -e a@example.org -n Alicia
cargo run user add example_ca -e bob@example.org

cargo run user import example_ca -e heiko@example.org -n Heiko --key_file ~/heiko.pubkey
cargo run user import example_ca -e heiko@example.org -n Heiko --key_file _test_data/pubkey.asc --revocation_file _test_data/revoke.asc

cargo run bridge new -r "*@foo.de" --remote_key_file /tmp/bar.txt --name foobridge example_ca
cargo run bridge revoke --name foobridge
```

A sqlite database gets created implicitly
(by default in /tmp/openpgpca.sqlite, as configured in the ".env" file in this project)
