doc/src/keys-revocation.md, before:

# Revoking a Key

Revoking an OpenPGP key means that we publish a statement saying that the
key should not be used anymore.  The statement may include a reason why the
key shouldn't be used (e.g., it has been compromised, or the user simply has a
new one), and when the revocation should come into effect.  The statement is a
machine readable, cryptographic artifact and is called a "revocation
certificate".

Revocation certificates should be widely published (e.g. via WKD and on Key
Servers) so that third parties will quickly learn that the
key should not be used anymore, and to prevent an attacker from hindering
distribution of the revocation certificate.

There are different reasons why we might want to revoke a user's OpenPGP
key. For example, the user's key might have been compromised, or the user has
left our organization. Revocation certificates contain information about
the reason why the affected key has been revoked. OpenPGP
implementations can use this information to determine how to treat
existing artifacts.  For instance, if a key has been compromised, the
attacker could create backdated signatures.  Thus, all signatures should
be considered suspect.  But, if a user simply switched to a new key, old
signatures may still be considered valid.

# Managing Revocations

In OpenPGP, to be able to generate a revocation certificate for a key,
the private part of that key is needed. Since OpenPGP CA doesn't keep a
copy of a user's private key, this means that revocations can typically
only be generated by the user themselves.

While OpenPGP CA never stores users' private keys, it does
optionally store revocation certificates for our users' keys.
This means that the OpenPGP CA admin can choose to invalidate users' keys.

A risk that follows from centrally storing revocation certificates is that if
the OpenPGP CA data (including the revocation certificates) is
compromised, a third party is able to invalidate our user's
keys - leading to a denial-of-service attack scenario, where our users
can't use OpenPGP anymore.
That is bad. However, it is much less severe than a scenario in which the
attacker gains access to the user's private key material.

For every user, one or many revocation certificates may be stored in OpenPGP
CA.

To check which revocation certificates exist for a given user, we can query
by email:

`$ openpgp-ca -d example.oca user show-revocations --email alice@example.org`

```
Revocations for Usercert "Alice Adams"
 - revocation id 90E28DFB6D501AB7: No reason specified (Unspecified) (15/07/2020)
```
The results show an ID for each individual revocation certificate.

When we've determined which revocation certificate we want to apply, we can
apply that revocation to the user's key:

`$ openpgp-ca -d example.oca user apply-revocation 90E28DFB6D501AB7`

Afterwards, "show-revocations" will display the additional note: "this
revocation has been APPLIED", and the user's public key contains the
revocation certificate:

`$ openpgp-ca -d example.oca user show-revocations --email alice@example.org`

```
Revocations for Usercert "Alice Adams"
 - revocation id 90E28DFB6D501AB7: No reason specified (Unspecified) (15/07/2020)
   this revocation has been APPLIED
```

# Publishing the revocation

Now the revocation has been applied to our local copy of the user's
certificate.
We still need to publish this newly revoked version of the user's
certificate.

To achieve this we should
[regenerate our organization's WKD](keys-publish.md#publish-keys-as-a-wkd)
and publish the new version of this user certificate there.

Also, we can manually export the certificate

`$ openpgp-ca -d example.oca user export --email alice@example.org > alice.pub`
 
and then
[upload it to a public key server](https://keys.openpgp.org/about/usage#gnupg-upload),
or distribute it using other mechanisms.

As the revoked version of the user's key gets disseminated, the OpenPGP
implementations of third parties learn that the key should no longer be used.

Commit message:

wording: consistently use the term "(OpenPGP) key" instead of "certificate"
wording: always use the term "certification" instead of "signature"
 (with the exception of the separate term "trust signature")

various minor edits

doc/src/keys-revocation.md, after:

# Revoking a Key

Revoking an OpenPGP key means that we publish a statement saying that the
key should not be used anymore.  The statement may include a reason why the
key shouldn't be used (e.g., it has been compromised, or the user simply has a
new one), and when the revocation should come into effect.  The statement is a
machine readable, cryptographic artifact and is called a "revocation
certificate".

Revocation certificates should be widely published (e.g. via WKD and on Key
Servers) so that third parties will quickly learn that the
key should not be used anymore, and to prevent an attacker from hindering
distribution of the revocation certificate.

There are different reasons why we might want to revoke a user's OpenPGP
key. For example, the user's key might have been compromised, or the user has
left our organization. Revocation certificates contain information about
the reason why the affected key has been revoked. OpenPGP
implementations can use this information to determine how to treat
existing artifacts.  For instance, if a key has been compromised, the
attacker could create backdated signatures.  Thus, all signatures should
be considered suspect.  But, if a user simply switched to a new key, old
signatures may still be considered valid.

# Managing Revocations

In OpenPGP, to be able to generate a revocation certificate for a key,
the private part of that key is needed. Since OpenPGP CA doesn't keep a
copy of a user's private key, this means that revocations can typically
only be generated by the user themselves.

While OpenPGP CA never stores users' private keys, it does
optionally store revocation certificates for our users' keys.
This means that the OpenPGP CA admin can choose to invalidate users' keys.

A risk that follows from centrally storing revocation certificates is that if
the OpenPGP CA data (including the revocation certificates) is
compromised, a third party is able to invalidate our user's
keys - leading to a denial-of-service attack scenario, where our users
can't use OpenPGP anymore.
That is bad. However, it is much less severe than a scenario in which the
attacker gains access to the user's private key material.

For every user, one or many revocation certificates may be stored in OpenPGP
CA.

To check which revocation certificates exist for a given user, we can query
by email:

`$ openpgp-ca -d example.oca user show-revocations --email alice@example.org`

```
Revocations for Usercert "Alice Adams"
 - revocation id 90E28DFB6D501AB7: No reason specified (Unspecified) (15/07/2020)
```
The results show an ID for each individual revocation certificate.

When we've determined which revocation certificate we want to apply, we can
apply that revocation to the user's key:

`$ openpgp-ca -d example.oca user apply-revocation 90E28DFB6D501AB7`

Afterwards, "show-revocations" will display the additional note: "this
revocation has been APPLIED", and the user's public key contains the
revocation certificate:

`$ openpgp-ca -d example.oca user show-revocations --email alice@example.org`

```
Revocations for Usercert "Alice Adams"
 - revocation id 90E28DFB6D501AB7: No reason specified (Unspecified) (15/07/2020)
   this revocation has been APPLIED
```

# Publishing the revocation

Now the revocation has been applied to our local copy of the user's
OpenPGP key.
We still need to publish this newly revoked version of the user's
key.

To achieve this we should
[regenerate our organization's WKD](keys-publish.md#publish-keys-as-a-wkd)
and publish the new version of this user's OpenPGP key there.

Also, we can manually export the user's key

`$ openpgp-ca -d example.oca user export --email alice@example.org > alice.pub`
 
and then
[upload it to a public key server](https://keys.openpgp.org/about/usage#gnupg-upload),
or distribute it using other mechanisms.

As the revoked version of the user's key gets disseminated, the OpenPGP
implementations of third parties learn that the key should no longer be used.
